receiver/postgresqlreceiver/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# postgresql

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### postgresql.backends

The number of backends.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.bgwriter.buffers.allocated

Number of buffers allocated.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {buffers} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.bgwriter.buffers.writes

Number of buffers written.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {buffers} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| source | The source of a buffer write. | Str: ``backend``, ``backend_fsync``, ``checkpoints``, ``bgwriter`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.bgwriter.checkpoint.count

The number of checkpoints performed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {checkpoints} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| type | The type of checkpoint state. | Str: ``requested``, ``scheduled`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.bgwriter.duration

Total time spent writing and syncing files to disk by checkpoints.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| ms | Sum | Double | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| type | The type of time spent during the checkpoint. | Str: ``sync``, ``write`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.bgwriter.maxwritten

Number of times the background writer stopped a cleaning scan because it had written too many buffers.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.blocks_read

The number of blocks read.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| source | The block read source type. | Str: ``heap_read``, ``heap_hit``, ``idx_read``, ``idx_hit``, ``toast_read``, ``toast_hit``, ``tidx_read``, ``tidx_hit`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.commits

The number of commits.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.connection.max

Configured maximum number of client connections allowed

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| {connections} | Gauge | Int | Development |

### postgresql.database.count

Number of user databases.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {databases} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.db_size

The database disk usage.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.index.scans

The number of index scans on a table.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {scans} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.index.size

The size of the index on disk.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| By | Gauge | Int | Development |

### postgresql.operations

The number of db row operations.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| operation | The database operation. | Str: ``ins``, ``upd``, ``del``, ``hot_upd`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.replication.data_delay

The amount of data delayed in replication.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| By | Gauge | Int | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| replication_client | The IP address of the client connected to this backend. If this field is "unix", it indicates either that the client is connected via a Unix socket. | Any Str | Recommended |

### postgresql.rollbacks

The number of rollbacks.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.rows

The number of rows in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| state | The tuple (row) state. | Str: ``dead``, ``live`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.table.count

Number of user tables in a database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {table} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.table.size

Disk space used by a table.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.table.vacuum.count

Number of times a table has manually been vacuumed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {vacuum} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.wal.age

Age of the oldest WAL file.

This metric requires WAL to be enabled with at least one replica.


| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| s | Gauge | Int | Development |

### postgresql.wal.lag

Time between flushing recent WAL locally and receiving notification that the standby server has completed an operation with it.

This metric requires WAL to be enabled with at least one replica.


| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| s | Gauge | Int | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| operation | The operation which is responsible for the lag. | Str: ``flush``, ``replay``, ``write`` | Recommended |
| replication_client | The IP address of the client connected to this backend. If this field is "unix", it indicates either that the client is connected via a Unix socket. | Any Str | Recommended |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### postgresql.blks_hit

Number of times disk blocks were found already in the buffer cache.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {blks_hit} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.blks_read

Number of disk blocks read in this database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {blks_read} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.database.locks

The number of database locks.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| {lock} | Gauge | Int | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| relation | OID of the relation targeted by the lock, or null if the target is not a relation or part of a relation. | Any Str | Recommended |
| mode | Name of the lock mode held or desired by the process. | Any Str | Recommended |
| lock_type | Type of the lockable object. | Any Str | Recommended |

### postgresql.deadlocks

The number of deadlocks.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {deadlock} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.function.calls

The number of calls made to a function. Requires `track_functions=pl|all` in Postgres config.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {call} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| function | The name of the function. | Any Str | Recommended |

### postgresql.sequential_scans

The number of sequential scans.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {sequential_scan} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.temp.io

Total amount of data written to temporary files by queries.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.temp_files

The number of temp files.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {temp_file} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_deleted

Number of rows deleted by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_deleted} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_fetched

Number of rows fetched by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_fetched} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_inserted

Number of rows inserted by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_inserted} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_returned

Number of rows returned by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_returned} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_updated

Number of rows updated by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_updated} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.wal.delay

Time between flushing recent WAL locally and receiving notification that the standby server has completed an operation with it.

This metric requires WAL to be enabled with at least one replica.


| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| s | Gauge | Double | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| operation | The operation which is responsible for the lag. | Str: ``flush``, ``replay``, ``write`` | Recommended |
| replication_client | The IP address of the client connected to this backend. If this field is "unix", it indicates either that the client is connected via a Unix socket. | Any Str | Recommended |

## Default Events

The following events are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
events:
  <event_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### db.server.query_sample

query sample

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| db.system.name | The database management system (DBMS) product as identified by the client instrumentation. | Str: ``postgresql`` |
| db.namespace | The namespace or schema of the database where the query is executed. | Any Str |
| db.query.text | The text of the database query being executed. | Any Str |
| user.name | Name of the user logged into this backend. | Any Str |
| postgresql.state | Current overall state of this backend | Any Str |
| postgresql.pid | Process ID of this backend. | Any Int |
| postgresql.application_name | Name of the application that is connected to this backend. | Any Str |
| network.peer.address | IP address of the client connected to this backend. | Any Str |
| network.peer.port | TCP port number that the client is using for communication with this backend. | Any Int |
| postgresql.client_hostname | Host name of the connected client, as reported by a reverse DNS lookup of client_addr. | Any Str |
| postgresql.query_start | Time when the currently active query was started, or if state is not active, when the last query was started. | Any Str |
| postgresql.wait_event | Wait event name if backend is currently waiting, otherwise NULL. | Any Str |
| postgresql.wait_event_type | The type of event for which the backend is waiting, if any; otherwise NULL. | Any Str |
| postgresql.query_id | Identifier of this backend's most recent query. If state is active this field shows the identifier of the currently executing query. In all other states, it shows the identifier of last query that was executed. | Any Str |
| postgresql.total_exec_time | Total time spent executing the statement, in delta milliseconds. | Any Double |

### db.server.top_query

top query

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| db.system.name | The database management system (DBMS) product as identified by the client instrumentation. | Str: ``postgresql`` |
| db.namespace | The namespace or schema of the database where the query is executed. | Any Str |
| db.query.text | The text of the database query being executed. | Any Str |
| postgresql.calls | Number of times the statement was executed, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.rows | Total number of rows retrieved or affected by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_dirtied | Total number of shared blocks dirtied by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_hit | Total number of shared block cache hits by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_read | Total number of shared blocks read by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_written | Total number of shared blocks written by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.temp_blks_read | Total number of temp blocks read by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.temp_blks_written | Total number of temp blocks written by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.queryid | Hash code to identify identical normalized queries. | Any Str |
| postgresql.rolname | The name of the PostgreSQL role that executed the query. | Any Str |
| postgresql.total_exec_time | Total time spent executing the statement, in delta milliseconds. | Any Double |
| postgresql.total_plan_time | Total time spent planning the statement, in delta milliseconds. | Any Double |
| postgresql.query_plan | The execution plan used by PostgreSQL for the query. | Any Str |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| postgresql.database.name | The name of the database. | Any Str | true |
| postgresql.index.name | The name of the index on a table. | Any Str | true |
| postgresql.schema.name | The schema name. | Any Str | true |
| postgresql.table.name | The table name. | Any Str | true |
| service.instance.id | A unique identifier of the PostgreSQL instance in the format host:port (defaults to 'unknown:5432' in case of error in generating this value). | Any Str | true |

Commit message:

[receiver/postgresql] use UUID v5 for service.instance.id, add server.port attribute
Change resource identification to use deterministic UUID v5 for service.instance.id
instead of the previous host:port format. This ensures unique identification per
resource level while following OTel semantic conventions.

Changes:
- service.name: constant "postgresql" value
- service.instance.id: deterministic UUID v5 based on host:port:database:schema:table:index
- server.port: new attribute exposing the PostgreSQL server port

Signed-off-by: Arve Knudsen <arve.knudsen@gmail.com>

receiver/postgresqlreceiver/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# postgresql

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### postgresql.backends

The number of backends.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.bgwriter.buffers.allocated

Number of buffers allocated.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {buffers} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.bgwriter.buffers.writes

Number of buffers written.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {buffers} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| source | The source of a buffer write. | Str: ``backend``, ``backend_fsync``, ``checkpoints``, ``bgwriter`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.bgwriter.checkpoint.count

The number of checkpoints performed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {checkpoints} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| type | The type of checkpoint state. | Str: ``requested``, ``scheduled`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.bgwriter.duration

Total time spent writing and syncing files to disk by checkpoints.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| ms | Sum | Double | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| type | The type of time spent during the checkpoint. | Str: ``sync``, ``write`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.bgwriter.maxwritten

Number of times the background writer stopped a cleaning scan because it had written too many buffers.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.blocks_read

The number of blocks read.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| source | The block read source type. | Str: ``heap_read``, ``heap_hit``, ``idx_read``, ``idx_hit``, ``toast_read``, ``toast_hit``, ``tidx_read``, ``tidx_hit`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.commits

The number of commits.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.connection.max

Configured maximum number of client connections allowed

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| {connections} | Gauge | Int | Development |

### postgresql.database.count

Number of user databases.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {databases} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.db_size

The database disk usage.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.index.scans

The number of index scans on a table.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {scans} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.index.size

The size of the index on disk.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| By | Gauge | Int | Development |

### postgresql.operations

The number of db row operations.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| operation | The database operation. | Str: ``ins``, ``upd``, ``del``, ``hot_upd`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.replication.data_delay

The amount of data delayed in replication.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| By | Gauge | Int | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| replication_client | The IP address of the client connected to this backend. If this field is "unix", it indicates either that the client is connected via a Unix socket. | Any Str | Recommended |

### postgresql.rollbacks

The number of rollbacks.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.rows

The number of rows in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| 1 | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| state | The tuple (row) state. | Str: ``dead``, ``live`` | Recommended |

### postgresql.table.count

Number of user tables in a database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {table} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.table.size

Disk space used by a table.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false | Development |

### postgresql.table.vacuum.count

Number of times a table has manually been vacuumed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {vacuum} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.wal.age

Age of the oldest WAL file.

This metric requires WAL to be enabled with at least one replica.


| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| s | Gauge | Int | Development |

### postgresql.wal.lag

Time between flushing recent WAL locally and receiving notification that the standby server has completed an operation with it.

This metric requires WAL to be enabled with at least one replica.


| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| s | Gauge | Int | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| operation | The operation which is responsible for the lag. | Str: ``flush``, ``replay``, ``write`` | Recommended |
| replication_client | The IP address of the client connected to this backend. If this field is "unix", it indicates either that the client is connected via a Unix socket. | Any Str | Recommended |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### postgresql.blks_hit

Number of times disk blocks were found already in the buffer cache.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {blks_hit} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.blks_read

Number of disk blocks read in this database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {blks_read} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.database.locks

The number of database locks.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| {lock} | Gauge | Int | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| relation | OID of the relation targeted by the lock, or null if the target is not a relation or part of a relation. | Any Str | Recommended |
| mode | Name of the lock mode held or desired by the process. | Any Str | Recommended |
| lock_type | Type of the lockable object. | Any Str | Recommended |

### postgresql.deadlocks

The number of deadlocks.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {deadlock} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.function.calls

The number of calls made to a function. Requires `track_functions=pl|all` in Postgres config.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {call} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| function | The name of the function. | Any Str | Recommended |

### postgresql.sequential_scans

The number of sequential scans.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {sequential_scan} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.temp.io

Total amount of data written to temporary files by queries.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.temp_files

The number of temp files.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {temp_file} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_deleted

Number of rows deleted by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_deleted} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_fetched

Number of rows fetched by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_fetched} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_inserted

Number of rows inserted by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_inserted} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_returned

Number of rows returned by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_returned} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.tup_updated

Number of rows updated by queries in the database.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| {tup_updated} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true | Development |

### postgresql.wal.delay

Time between flushing recent WAL locally and receiving notification that the standby server has completed an operation with it.

This metric requires WAL to be enabled with at least one replica.


| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Stability |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- |
| s | Gauge | Double | Development |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Requirement Level |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| operation | The operation which is responsible for the lag. | Str: ``flush``, ``replay``, ``write`` | Recommended |
| replication_client | The IP address of the client connected to this backend. If this field is "unix", it indicates either that the client is connected via a Unix socket. | Any Str | Recommended |

## Default Events

The following events are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
events:
  <event_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### db.server.query_sample

query sample

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| db.system.name | The database management system (DBMS) product as identified by the client instrumentation. | Str: ``postgresql`` |
| db.namespace | The namespace or schema of the database where the query is executed. | Any Str |
| db.query.text | The text of the database query being executed. | Any Str |
| user.name | Name of the user logged into this backend. | Any Str |
| postgresql.state | Current overall state of this backend | Any Str |
| postgresql.pid | Process ID of this backend. | Any Int |
| postgresql.application_name | Name of the application that is connected to this backend. | Any Str |
| network.peer.address | IP address of the client connected to this backend. | Any Str |
| network.peer.port | TCP port number that the client is using for communication with this backend. | Any Int |
| postgresql.client_hostname | Host name of the connected client, as reported by a reverse DNS lookup of client_addr. | Any Str |
| postgresql.query_start | Time when the currently active query was started, or if state is not active, when the last query was started. | Any Str |
| postgresql.wait_event | Wait event name if backend is currently waiting, otherwise NULL. | Any Str |
| postgresql.wait_event_type | The type of event for which the backend is waiting, if any; otherwise NULL. | Any Str |
| postgresql.query_id | Identifier of this backend's most recent query. If state is active this field shows the identifier of the currently executing query. In all other states, it shows the identifier of last query that was executed. | Any Str |
| postgresql.total_exec_time | Total time spent executing the statement, in delta milliseconds. | Any Double |

### db.server.top_query

top query

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| db.system.name | The database management system (DBMS) product as identified by the client instrumentation. | Str: ``postgresql`` |
| db.namespace | The namespace or schema of the database where the query is executed. | Any Str |
| db.query.text | The text of the database query being executed. | Any Str |
| postgresql.calls | Number of times the statement was executed, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.rows | Total number of rows retrieved or affected by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_dirtied | Total number of shared blocks dirtied by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_hit | Total number of shared block cache hits by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_read | Total number of shared blocks read by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.shared_blks_written | Total number of shared blocks written by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.temp_blks_read | Total number of temp blocks read by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.temp_blks_written | Total number of temp blocks written by the statement, reported in delta value. | Any Int |
| postgresql.queryid | Hash code to identify identical normalized queries. | Any Str |
| postgresql.rolname | The name of the PostgreSQL role that executed the query. | Any Str |
| postgresql.total_exec_time | Total time spent executing the statement, in delta milliseconds. | Any Double |
| postgresql.total_plan_time | Total time spent planning the statement, in delta milliseconds. | Any Double |
| postgresql.query_plan | The execution plan used by PostgreSQL for the query. | Any Str |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| postgresql.database.name | The name of the database. | Any Str | true |
| postgresql.index.name | The name of the index on a table. | Any Str | true |
| postgresql.schema.name | The schema name. | Any Str | true |
| postgresql.table.name | The table name. | Any Str | true |
| server.host | The hostname of the PostgreSQL server. | Any Str | true |
| server.port | The port number of the PostgreSQL server. | Any Int | true |
| service.instance.id | A unique identifier of the PostgreSQL resource as a UUID v5, derived from host, port, database, schema, table, and index. | Any Str | true |
| service.name | The database management system name (postgresql). | Any Str | true |
